==Bumble

Bumble is a very small wrapper around DataStore, that allow you to create data models backed by Google’s DataStore. It was developed to back YARBL, so it really only supports the things needed for that application.

This is what the data model for YARBL looks like. This should give you a feeling for how you define models with Bumble. One thing to remember is that the DataStore actually allows any properties/attributes on entitites, so it fits a language like Ruby very well.

  class Person
    include Bumble

    ds :given_name, :sur_name, :email
    has_many :blogs, Blog, :owner_id
  end

  class Blog
    include Bumble

    ds :name, :owner_id, :created_at
    belongs_to :owner, Person
    has_many :posts, :Post, :blog_id, :iorder => :created_at
  end

  class Post
    include Bumble

    ds :title, :content, :created_at, :blog_id
    belongs_to :blog, Blog
  end

To actually use the model for something, you can do things like these:

  Blog.all

  Post.all({}, :limit => 15, :iorder => :created_at)

  blog = Blog.get(params[:id])
  posts = blog.posts

  Blog.create :name => name, :owner => @person, :created_at => Time.now

  Post.all.each do |p|
    p.delete!
  end

Here are most of the supported methods. The implementation is incredibly small and you really can’t go wrong with it. Of course, it is not tuned at all, so it does lots of fetches it could avoid. I’m happily accepting patches! The code can be found at http://github.com/olabini/bumble.

Taken from "Jruby on Rails on Google App Engine, APRIL 8TH, 2009" at
http://olabini.com/blog/2009/04/jruby-on-rails-on-google-app-engine

